# Introduction

The Lifted App, located at [app.lifted.sg](https://app.lifted.sg), helps
lawyers and legal professionals to improve their skillsets. Through a simple
and friendly interface, it allows users to identify their strengths and
weaknesses, as well as discover relevant continuous professional development
(CPD) courses from a variety of providers. These courses provide "CPD points",
which lawyers are obligated to collect every year in order to renew their
practice licenses. As such, the app reduces inefficiences of this process.

The course discovery functions of the app is guided by the [Legal Industry
Framework for Training and
Education](https://www.sal.org.sg/Resources-Tools/Legal-Education/LIFTED/Essentials)
(LIFTED), which defines job competencies and learning needs. Developed by the
Legal Education Cluster (LEC) of the [Singapore Academy of
Law](https://www.sal.org.sg) (SAL), LIFTED defines job competencies and
learning needs. With the app, users just have to answer a few simple questions
to quickly receive useful course recommendations.

At the time of writing, it scrapes data from the
[SkillsFuture](https://www.myskillsfuture.sg/content/portal/en/training-exchange/course-landing.html),
[Law Society](http://www.lawsociety.org.sg/) (LawSoc), [Singapore Institute of
Legal Education](https://www.silecpdcentre.sg/calas/) (SILE), and
[SAL](https://www.sal.org.sg/Events/View-All-Events/Date-Desc) event websites.
To be made available on the app, the content obtained from these sources has to
be manually tagged and approved via an internal content management system
(CMS), located at [cms.lifted.sg/cms](https://cms.lifted.sg./cms).

## About this guide

The site you are currently on is a central repository of documentation for the
entire app, all the way from usage to technical documentation for developers.
Use the links at the sidebar to navigate to each sections, or use the search
bar to quickly find a page.
